# Parcel - the Visual Programming Platform

Hi there!👋

Parcel is a visual scripting platform that enables people to use graphical building blocks to solve problems. Despite the simple look, it's quite advanced behind the scene. Parcel is a flowchart engine designed to make office life and data analytics easier with better visualization, and with a stretch - maybe even fun! It complements the use of Excel, MATLAB/Python.

From a technical perspective, Parcel is an advanced lightweight general-purpose functional/procedural node-based workflow execution engine, along with PSL (Parcel Standard Libraries), POF (Parcel Original Frameworks), PVM (Parcel Virtual Machine) and POS (Parcel Open Stadards) specs, with built-in runtime handling and context awareness for C# and Python, and a text-based scripting DSL (Domain-Specific Language) known as MiniParcel. Parcel is suituated between a Fourth generation languages (4GL) and Third generation languages (3GL), meaning it operates on high level domain objects but is still largely algorithm based despite declarative features. Here is a video demo of an [early prototype in C# implemented using WPF (2022)](https://youtu.be/yEHaf_4y5AE). It's simple enough to be used by non-programmers but also extensive enough to be used by experienced developers. The primary focus of Parcel at know is shell automation and data analytics. Parcel is specified by a [suite of standards](https://github.com/Charles-Zhang-Parcel/Parcel_NExT/tree/main/Parcel%20Open%20Standard) and is provided as a reference implementation known as Parcel NExT.
